BOOK - Suddenly in Charge


MANAGE UP

Traits commonly associatd with hands-off managers are; limited communication .. also believe in high accountability (p6)
When it comes to decision making, these type of leaders involve ithers in problem solving and weigh the options (p9)
How work really gets done in the organization ... learning how work gets done informally (p16)
Micromanager needs to be closely managed. Idea is to build trust (p40)

MANAGE DOWN

Way to make positive first impression is to ask questions (p4)
Show them you are willing to work side by side (p5)
Place check mark when you are tempted to interrupt someone (p6)
Making sure light is shining on individuals who contribute most to the team (p7)
Be yourself, truthfukl spend time working side by side, match actions with words (p8-9)

I tend to do most of talking?
I can succeed without support of others?
My technical knowledge is enough to succeed in management?
I share my opinion first, then ask for inputs?
I am the smartest person in the team?
I am not confident to do the same work performed by team members?
My method of communication follows my own style rather than team members?
I hesitate to ask for advise from team members?
I multitask when others speak to me?
I am a feared person?
(p10-11)

Does employee consistenly perform at high level?
Does employee understand expectation and how the role fits in the organization?
Does employee challenge the status quo?
Does employee show enthusiasm?
Does employee add value to his/her work?
Does employee show commitment to the goal of the team and organization?
Does employee show confidence in making difference?
(p17)

Build on strength rather than weakness
Focus on those who have ability and desire
(p19)

Do you ask inputs to your employees before making changes that will have direct impact on them? (p20)

Disengaged employee?
Less volunteeering to take tasks, less opinions, less contributions
Invite to have private conversation regarding "your" observation (p23)

Disengaged beyond repair? Cut that employee out of organizztion before further damange is inflicted on other employees (p24)

Have I defined roles and responsibilities clearly? Have I seen enough candidates before calling it? (first love rarely end-up in marrage) Have I cast the net wide enough? (not just through referral) Am I hiring for the fit, not just for the skills? Am I hiring Mr. Right Now, or someone who can contribute to building an exceptional team? (p32)

Hire for talent, rather than skills and experience. Passion, attention to detail, ownership cannot be taught (p34)

Never make statements that you can't deliver (Also be honest and transparent when you can't deliver) Be yourself and do your style of management. Establish accountability for performance of employees (p42)

Toxic employee - agreesive behavior, criticism for sake of being different, unwillingness to help others out .. only cure that works is removal (p62)

Set clear and measurable expectation, document everything, provide on-going feedbacks, be heads-up and transparent on bad news


BOOK - The Unicorn Project


"Locality and Simplicity"

Simplicity is important because it enables locality. Locality in our code is what keeps systems loosely coupled, enabling us to deliver features faster. Teams can quickly and independently develop, test, and deploy values to customers (chapter 7, page 2)

"Focus, Flow, and Joy"

Is our work marked by boredom and waiting for other people to get things done on our behalf? ... or do we work on small batches ... getting fast and continual feedbacks on our work? (chapter 7, page 4)

"Improvement of Daily Work"

Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft, still has a culture that if a developer ever has a choice between working on a feature and developer productivity, they should always choose develoepr productivity (chapter 8, page 10)

It's about excellence, the ruthless pursuit of perfection, the urgency to achieve the mission, a constant dissatisfaction with the status quo, and a zeal to help those the organization serves (chapter 8, page 13)

"Psychological Safety"

"Customer Focus"


Horizon 1 is your successful, cash-flow businesses, where the customer, business, and operational models are well-known and predictable. (chapter 16, page 4)

... Horizon 2 lines of businesses are so important ... they may introduce the company's capabilities to new customers, adjacent markets, or with different business models. These endeavors may not be profitable, but this is where we find higher-growth areas. (chapter 16, page 4)

... Horizon 2 efforts come from Horizon 3, where the focus us on velocity of learning and having a broad pool of ideas to explore ... does the idea solve a real customer need? Is it technically feasible? And is there a financially feasible engine of growth? Is the answer is no to any of them, it's time to pivot or kill the idea (chapter 16, page 4)

Horizon 1 thrives on process and consistency, on rules and compliance, and on bureaucracies, which creates extraordinary resilence ... In contrast, in Horizon 3, you must go fast, you must be constantly experimenting, and you must be allowed to break all the rules and processes governing Horizon 1. (chapter 16, page 4)

Horizon 1 and Horizon 3 are often in conflict with each other ... Left unchecked, Horizon 1 leaders will consume all the resources of the company ... This is the "manage to value" thesis and is opposite of "manage to growth" (chapter 16, page 5)


They underinvest in Core, because they are being controlled by Context. Cores are the central competencies of the organization. These are things that customers are willing to pay for and what investors reward ... Context is everything else ... thousand of things companies must do to operate (chapter 17, page 13)

.. how much ... technology spending is Core, actively building competitive advantage, and how much of it is Context, which is important and maybe even mission-critical, but still needs to be standardized, managed down, and maybe even oursourced entirely? (chapter 17, page 13-14)


BOOK - Good leaders ask great questions


What is the greatest lesson you've learned?
What are you learning now?
How has failure shaped your life?
How can I add value to you?
(ch1)

Am I investing enough in myself?
AM I genuinely interested in others?
Humbleness is being honest about my weakness. Humble leaders are comfortable with who they are and feel no need to draw attention to themselves
Am I adding value to the team?
Am I staying in my strength zone?
Am I investing my time with the right people?
(ch2)

Do I have an open-ear policy?
Do I interrupt?
Do I want to hear what I need to hear?
(ch3)

Ask those who knows you the best help identify my blind spots
(ch4)

Leadership ability to influence others to follow the lead, and getting others to participate, helping them become better
Good leaders always take into account of person's skills and interest in doing the work
(ch5)

Delegating
Exactly what needs to be done
Why does it need to be done
When does it need to be done
Who is the best person to do it
How well must it be done
(ch6)

Low performance / bad attitude
1. Invite to private conversation asap
2. Ask for their side of story
3. Come to a place of agreement
4. Set out future actions with deadline
5. Validate the value of person and commitment to help