MANAGE UP

Traits commonly associatd with hands-off managers are; limited communication .. also believe in high accountability (p6)
When it comes to decision making, these type of leaders involve ithers in problem solving and weigh the options (p9)
How work really gets done in the organization ... learning how work gets done informally (p16)
Micromanager needs to be closely managed. Idea is to build trust (p40)

MANAGE DOWN

Way to make positive first impression is to ask questions (p4)
Show them you are willing to work side by side (p5)
Place check mark when you are tempted to interrupt someone (p6)
Making sure light is shining on individuals who contribute most to the team (p7)
Be yourself, truthfuk, spend time working side by side, match actions with words (p8-9)

I tend to do most of talking?
I can succeed without support of others?
My technical knowledge is enough to succeed in management?
I share my opinion first, then ask for inputs?
I am the smartest person in the team?
I am not confident to do the same work performed by team members?
My method of communication follows my own style rather than team members?
I hesitate to ask for advise from team members?
I multitask when others speak to me?
I am a feared person?
(p10-11)

Does employee consistenly perform at high level?
Does employee understand expectation and how the role fits in the organization?
Does employee challenge the status quo?
Does employee show enthusiasm?
Does employee add value to his/her work?
Does employee show commitment to the goal of the team and organization?
Does employee show confidence in making difference?
(p17)

Build on strength rather than weakness
Focus on those who have ability and desire
(p19)

Do you ask inputs to your employees before making changes that will have direct impact on them? (p20)

Disengaged employee?
Less volunteeering to take tasks, less opinions, less contributions
Invite to have private conversation regarding "your" observation (p23)