The Unicorn Project


"Locality and Simplicity"

Simplicity is important because it enables locality. Locality in our code is what keeps systems loosely coupled, enabling us to deliver features faster. Teams can quickly and independently develop, test, and deploy values to customers (chapter 7, page 2)

"Focus, Flow, and Joy"

Is our work marked by boredom and waiting for other people to get things done on our behalf? ... or do we work on small batches ... getting fast and continual feedbacks on our work? (chapter 7, page 4)

"Improvement of Daily Work"

Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft, still has a culture that if a developer ever has a choice between working on a feature and developer productivity, they should always choose develoepr productivity (chapter 8, page 10)

It's about excellence, the ruthless pursuit of perfection, the urgency to achieve the mission, a constant dissatisfaction with the status quo, and a zeal to help those the organization serves (chapter 8, page 13)

"Psychological Safety"

"Customer Focus"


Horizon 1 is your successful, cash-flow businesses, where the customer, business, and operational models are well-known and predictable. (chapter 16, page 4)

... Horizon 2 lines of businesses are so important ... they may introduce the company's capabilities to new customers, adjacent markets, or with different business models. These endeavors may not be profitable, but this is where we find higher-growth areas. (chapter 16, page 4)

... Horizon 2 efforts come from Horizon 3, where the focus us on velocity of learning and having a broad pool of ideas to explore ... does the idea solve a real customer need? Is it technically feasible? And is there a financially feasible engine of growth? Is the answer is no to any of them, it's time to pivot or kill the idea (chapter 16, page 4)

Horizon 1 thrives on process and consistency, on rules and compliance, and on bureaucracies, which creates extraordinary resilence ... In contrast, in Horizon 3, you must go fast, you must be constantly experimenting, and you must be allowed to break all the rules and processes governing Horizon 1. (chapter 16, page 4)

Horizon 1 and Horizon 3 are often in conflict with each other ... Left unchecked, Horizon 1 leaders will consume all the resources of the company ... This is the "manage to value" thesis and is opposite of "manage to growth" (chapter 16, page 5)


They underinvest in Core, because they are being controlled by Context. Cores are the central competencies of the organization. These are things that customers are willing to pay for and what investors reward ... Context is everything else ... thousand of things companies must do to operate (chapter 17, page 13)

.. how much ... technology spending is Core, actively building competitive advantage, and how much of it is Context, which is important and maybe even mission-critical, but still needs to be standardized, managed down, and maybe even oursourced entirely? (chapter 17, page 13-14)


